README.md, before:

# @auth0/auth0-react

Auth0 SDK for React Single Page Applications (SPA).

[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/auth0/auth0-react.svg?branch=master&style=flat)](https://circleci.com/gh/auth0/auth0-react)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@auth0/auth0-react.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@auth0/auth0-react)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/auth0/auth0-react/master.svg?style=flat)](https://codecov.io/gh/auth0/auth0-react)

### Beta

**@auth0/auth0-react** is in Beta in order to get feedback to shape its design. As we move towards general availability please be aware that releases may contain breaking changes, but we will do our best to communicate them.

## Table of Contents

- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support + Feedback](#support--feedback)
- [Vulnerability Reporting](#vulnerability-reporting)
- [What is Auth0](#what-is-auth0)
- [License](#license)

## Documentation

- [API Reference](https://auth0.github.io/auth0-react/)
- [Quickstart Guide](https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/spa/auth0-react)

## Installation

Using [npm](https://npmjs.org/)

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-react
```

Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

```bash
yarn add @auth0/auth0-react
```

## Getting Started

Configure the SDK by wrapping your application in `Auth0Provider`:

```jsx
// src/index.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { Auth0Provider } from '@auth0/auth0-react';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <Auth0Provider
    domain="YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN"
    clientId="YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID"
    redirectUri={window.location.origin}
  >
    <App />
  </Auth0Provider>,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

Use the `useAuth0` hook in your components to access authentication state (`isLoading`, `isAuthenticated` and `user`) and authentication methods (`loginWithRedirect` and `logout`):

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React from 'react';
import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    isAuthenticated,
    error,
    user,
    loginWithRedirect,
    logout,
  } = useAuth0();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>Oops... {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (isAuthenticated) {
    return (
      <div>
        Hello {user.name} <button onClick={logout}>Log out</button>
      </div>
    );
  } else {
    return <button onClick={loginWithRedirect}>Log in</button>;
  }
}

export default App;
```

### Use with a Class Component

Use the `withAuth0` higher order component to add the `auth0` property to Class components:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { withAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

class Profile extends Component {
  render() {
    const { user } = this.props.auth0;
    return <div>Hello {user.name}</div>;
  }
}

export default withAuth0(Profile);
```

### Protect a Route

Protect a route component using the `withAuthenticationRequired` higher order component. Visits to this route when unauthenticated will redirect the user to the login page and back to this page after login:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { withAuthenticationRequired } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

// Show a message while the user waits to be redirected to the login page.
const Redirecting = () => <div>Redirecting you to the login page...</div>;

const PrivateRoute = () => <div>Private</div>;

export default withAuthenticationRequired(PrivateRoute, Redirecting);
```

**Note** If you are using a custom router, you will need to supply the `Auth0Provider` with a custom `onRedirectCallback` method to perform the action that returns the user to the protected page. See examples for [react-router](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#1-protecting-a-route-in-a-react-router-dom-app), [Gatsby](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#2-protecting-a-route-in-a-gatsby-app) and [Next.js](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#3-protecting-a-route-in-a-nextjs-app-in-spa-mode).

### Call an API

Call a protected API with an Access Token:

```jsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

const Posts = () => {
  const { getAccessTokenSilently } = useAuth0();
  const [posts, setPosts] = useState(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      try {
        const token = await getAccessTokenSilently({
          audience: 'https://api.example.com/',
          scope: 'read:posts',
        });
        const response = await fetch('https://api.example.com/posts', {
          headers: {
            Authorization: `Bearer ${token}`,
          },
        });
        setPosts(await response.json());
      } catch (e) {
        console.error(e);
      }
    })();
  }, [getAccessTokenSilently]);

  if (!posts) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return (
    <ul>
      {posts.map((post, index) => {
        return <li key={index}>{post}</li>;
      })}
    </ul>
  );
};

export default Posts;
```

For a more detailed example see how to [create a `useApi` hook for accessing protected APIs with an access token](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#4-create-a-useapi-hook-for-accessing-protected-apis-with-an-access-token).

## Contributing

We appreciate feedback and contribution to this repo! Before you get started, please see the following:

- [Auth0's general contribution guidelines](https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/GENERAL-CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Auth0's code of conduct guidelines](https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md)

## Support + Feedback

For support or to provide feedback, please [raise an issue on our issue tracker](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/issues).

## Vulnerability Reporting

Please do not report security vulnerabilities on the public GitHub issue tracker. The [Responsible Disclosure Program](https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

## What is Auth0?

Auth0 helps you to easily:

- Implement authentication with multiple identity providers, including social (e.g., Google, Facebook, Microsoft, LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter, etc), or enterprise (e.g., Windows Azure AD, Google Apps, Active Directory, ADFS, SAML, etc.)
- Log in users with username/password databases, passwordless, or multi-factor authentication
- Link multiple user accounts together
- Generate signed JSON Web Tokens to authorize your API calls and flow the user identity securely
- Access demographics and analytics detailing how, when, and where users are logging in
- Enrich user profiles from other data sources using customizable JavaScript rules

[Why Auth0?](https://auth0.com/why-auth0)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

[SDK-1704] Add contributing and troubleshooting guides (#39)
* Add contribution guide

* Add troubleshooting guide

* Fix a flakey test caused by Next.js hydrating the DOM

README.md, after:

# @auth0/auth0-react

Auth0 SDK for React Single Page Applications (SPA).

[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/auth0/auth0-react.svg?branch=master&style=flat)](https://circleci.com/gh/auth0/auth0-react)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@auth0/auth0-react.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@auth0/auth0-react)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/auth0/auth0-react/master.svg?style=flat)](https://codecov.io/gh/auth0/auth0-react)

### Beta

**@auth0/auth0-react** is in Beta in order to get feedback to shape its design. As we move towards general availability please be aware that releases may contain breaking changes, but we will do our best to communicate them.

## Table of Contents

- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Support + Feedback](#support--feedback)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Vulnerability Reporting](#vulnerability-reporting)
- [What is Auth0](#what-is-auth0)
- [License](#license)

## Documentation

- [API Reference](https://auth0.github.io/auth0-react/)
- [Quickstart Guide](https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/spa/auth0-react)

## Installation

Using [npm](https://npmjs.org/)

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-react
```

Using [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

```bash
yarn add @auth0/auth0-react
```

## Getting Started

Configure the SDK by wrapping your application in `Auth0Provider`:

```jsx
// src/index.js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { Auth0Provider } from '@auth0/auth0-react';
import App from './App';

ReactDOM.render(
  <Auth0Provider
    domain="YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN"
    clientId="YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID"
    redirectUri={window.location.origin}
  >
    <App />
  </Auth0Provider>,
  document.getElementById('app')
);
```

Use the `useAuth0` hook in your components to access authentication state (`isLoading`, `isAuthenticated` and `user`) and authentication methods (`loginWithRedirect` and `logout`):

```jsx
// src/App.js
import React from 'react';
import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

function App() {
  const {
    isLoading,
    isAuthenticated,
    error,
    user,
    loginWithRedirect,
    logout,
  } = useAuth0();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }
  if (error) {
    return <div>Oops... {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (isAuthenticated) {
    return (
      <div>
        Hello {user.name} <button onClick={logout}>Log out</button>
      </div>
    );
  } else {
    return <button onClick={loginWithRedirect}>Log in</button>;
  }
}

export default App;
```

### Use with a Class Component

Use the `withAuth0` higher order component to add the `auth0` property to Class components:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { withAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

class Profile extends Component {
  render() {
    const { user } = this.props.auth0;
    return <div>Hello {user.name}</div>;
  }
}

export default withAuth0(Profile);
```

### Protect a Route

Protect a route component using the `withAuthenticationRequired` higher order component. Visits to this route when unauthenticated will redirect the user to the login page and back to this page after login:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { withAuthenticationRequired } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

// Show a message while the user waits to be redirected to the login page.
const Redirecting = () => <div>Redirecting you to the login page...</div>;

const PrivateRoute = () => <div>Private</div>;

export default withAuthenticationRequired(PrivateRoute, Redirecting);
```

**Note** If you are using a custom router, you will need to supply the `Auth0Provider` with a custom `onRedirectCallback` method to perform the action that returns the user to the protected page. See examples for [react-router](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#1-protecting-a-route-in-a-react-router-dom-app), [Gatsby](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#2-protecting-a-route-in-a-gatsby-app) and [Next.js](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#3-protecting-a-route-in-a-nextjs-app-in-spa-mode).

### Call an API

Call a protected API with an Access Token:

```jsx
import React, { useEffect, useState } from 'react';
import { useAuth0 } from '@auth0/auth0-react';

const Posts = () => {
  const { getAccessTokenSilently } = useAuth0();
  const [posts, setPosts] = useState(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    (async () => {
      try {
        const token = await getAccessTokenSilently({
          audience: 'https://api.example.com/',
          scope: 'read:posts',
        });
        const response = await fetch('https://api.example.com/posts', {
          headers: {
            Authorization: `Bearer ${token}`,
          },
        });
        setPosts(await response.json());
      } catch (e) {
        console.error(e);
      }
    })();
  }, [getAccessTokenSilently]);

  if (!posts) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return (
    <ul>
      {posts.map((post, index) => {
        return <li key={index}>{post}</li>;
      })}
    </ul>
  );
};

export default Posts;
```

For a more detailed example see how to [create a `useApi` hook for accessing protected APIs with an access token](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#4-create-a-useapi-hook-for-accessing-protected-apis-with-an-access-token).

## Contributing

We appreciate feedback and contribution to this repo! Before you get started, please see the following:

- [Auth0's general contribution guidelines](https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/GENERAL-CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Auth0's code of conduct guidelines](https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md)
- [This repo's contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Support + Feedback

For support or to provide feedback, please [raise an issue on our issue tracker](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/issues).

## Troubleshooting

For information on how to solve common problems, check out the [Troubleshooting](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) guide

## Vulnerability Reporting

Please do not report security vulnerabilities on the public GitHub issue tracker. The [Responsible Disclosure Program](https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

## What is Auth0?

Auth0 helps you to easily:

- Implement authentication with multiple identity providers, including social (e.g., Google, Facebook, Microsoft, LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter, etc), or enterprise (e.g., Windows Azure AD, Google Apps, Active Directory, ADFS, SAML, etc.)
- Log in users with username/password databases, passwordless, or multi-factor authentication
- Link multiple user accounts together
- Generate signed JSON Web Tokens to authorize your API calls and flow the user identity securely
- Access demographics and analytics detailing how, when, and where users are logging in
- Enrich user profiles from other data sources using customizable JavaScript rules

[Why Auth0?](https://auth0.com/why-auth0)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-react/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.
